[Music]
the female standing over the baby is
behaving strangely
but she's not the calf's mother her name
is a tamale she's an orphan from the
elephant transit home
[Music]
she's trying to shove the calf's mother
out of the way
it seems she wants the baby for herself
[Music]
not surprisingly the mother isn't happy
there's real danger here with all the
shoving the cough could be injured
[Music]
the calf's grandmother leads the baby
aside the females will have to sort this
out for themselves
[Music]
this very unusual behavior is rarely
witnessed African elephants
sometimes kidnap a car from another
family as a display of dominance this is
different
[Music]
and almost certainly this is a direct
result of a tamales wolfin upbringing
[Music]
the biggest shock is the fights outcome
the mother losses that creates a serious
problem
[Music]
a calf is too young to know any better
but it's now following a tamale instead
of its mother
a tamale has no milk the baby could
starve why did she even steal it in the
first place in the elephant transit home
where Arthur Molly grew up
none of the elephants have parents
instead the older orphans take the
younger elephants under their wing
[Music]
to a tamale this isn't stealing it's
sharing and caring
her intentions may be good but the
outcome could be disastrous Beebe Gower
with nannies in attendance is preparing
for her very first bath when you're just
a few days old everything is an
adventure you're not careful you're
gonna fall in didi
careful careful careful careful sit easy
it's one way to do she's fine
anything Weaver can do gonna do as well
[Applause]
in comparison to Goa Weaver is looking
strong and confident so much so she's
taking the hard way out of the water all
up you come you can do it you can do it
Wendy lends a helping trunk to help I
was that hindrance no that's help in
times of real need the nannies are still
there for her that is lovely to see Luke
she's getting crowded round by other
elephants we see that she's struggling a
little bit
he's just helping her know it's a trunk
coming down that's really wonderful do
you know that's a testament to how much
Weaver has come on he's pushing herself
she's testing her abilities she's back
on dry land
now it's cows tournament
oops oh I think you've come up too soon
that baby's gonna struggle
Wow she's almost a used to place me
Bambi I become come on I'll become come
on come on come on come on
Oh at this age she's limited energy
reserves quickly she's overwhelmed with
exhaustion
baby elephants can perish and stuck in
the mud
I had sat down in the mud cheese
she's really tired
the adult members of this harridan
sometimes lack the experience to deal
with problems
normally herds are led by an older
matriarch who would know how to get
dower out of this maze
benjamin has to show them the easy way
out just trying to encourage them out
okay Benj is just going to go ahead and
see if you can push them out that's the
one that's doing it yeah that's helping
definitely look she's coming out
[Music]
I hope you come keep coming keep coming
keep coming
keeps coming ridiculous look at her that
is one very happy very muddy baby
elephant on the other side of the world
Roxy wants to see if she can help Moya
reach an important milestone in his
rehabilitation just a few days old
Moya nearly drowned as a result he's
developed a deep-rooted fear of water
months of therapy have rebuilt his
confidence today he faces a big
challenge we're going down to the big
dam and trying to help him get over his
fear of water come on let's go see I'm
just gonna walk straight in and see what
happens
even with Roxy and Josephine encouraging
him
Moyo isn't keen you know they say
elephants don't forget and perhaps he
will never forget his trauma but at
least if we can show him that it can be
a bit of fun we can sort of retrain his
brain to cope with that early memory so
hopefully he'll just settle we'll just
go slowly slowly slowly
after some gentle reassurance from Roxy
Moyo finally takes the plunge but I
think it helps being in the water as his
confidence builds he begins to enjoy the
experience
14 months of around-the-clock care and
therapy have led to this moment
Lillian or missing Lewis milestone and
it's one that I've actually been
dreaming about just to swim with with
more properly yeah no I genuinely off I
love that I really loved it's great and
the more yo it's a huge step forward in
his long journey back to the wild
reassurance and I just want to please
you you know yeah to begin if he was
doing it to please me I mean he he
started to have fun and I just love that
about Ellie's it's wonderful
[Music]
with the grass gone all the elephants
can scratch from the dust is within
twigs
the adults might just survive on this
but it will not support a calf for long
every mother in the herd is struggling
to provide milk for her calf the search
for food is increasingly urgent as the
herd moves on this female faces a
terrible choice to carry on with her
family or stay behind with her calf
who's becoming too weak to even stand
they will soon be out of sight but her
instinct is to stay
[Applause]
she won't abandon her baby
[Music]
[Applause]
with the calf's last breath she knows
that her battle is lost
elephants are in immediate danger they
must drink almost daily
driven on by thirst they march hundreds
of miles across the parched Plains
[Music]
relying on memory the matriarchs lead
their families to those special water
holes that save them in previous years
this one still has water but they must
share what remains with desperately
thirst animals of all kinds these are
tense times
[Music]
the elephant's dominate the waterhole
that as night falls the balance of power
will shift thirsty herds continue to
arrive throughout the night
it's a cooler time to travel
in the darkness the tables turn the
elephant's night vision is little better
than our own but lions have much more
sensitive eyes
[Music]
the cats are hungry and the elephants
are seemed to sense it
[Music]
Lions don't usually hunt elephants but
desperate times require desperate
measures
this herd contains cars easier targets
[Music]
but how to reach them
the adults encircle their yard
it's an impenetrable wall of gray
a few exhausted stragglers are still
arriving one of them is alone
[Music]
but it's too big for the Mayans
this one looks a little smaller
[Music]
[Applause]
assaulter lion stands no chance for the
whole prize is here there are 30 of them
and their specialist elephant hunters
[Music]
this elephant will feed the whole pride
for at least a week
elephants know these drinking holes are
dangerous but they have no choice the
dramas that play out here are a savage
reminder of how important water is for
all life on these pens
[Music]
[Applause]